In this video, we are gonna go ahead and
implement our Spring MVC Test. It's
gonna be a little bit different from
what we did previously. We will keep
these lightweight as well. We're gonna be we're going to ask you number 52 here
to write Spring MVC Test for the Owner
Controller. I'll assign this to me
saying that I am working on it and let's
toggle over to IntelliJ and get started.
Let's bring up the OwnerController
and take a look at what we're gonna
be testing here.
We are looking at just the OwnerController and we have two methods here.
We're gonna go /owners. We
have a couple of different request mappings
here to bring this up. So if we go to the
index we are gonna return back a
Model of owners and say to return back
the view owners/index, which maps to
templates/owners/index.html, so okay.
That's what we wanna test here.
Let's take a look at the Maven POM real
quick. You can see here that I don't have
Mockito and we definitely gonna need
Mockito here. So I am going to come over
here to the data project and shamelessly
cut and paste this on over to this
project because we are definitely gonna need that. That brings in the
Mockito Dependency for JUnit 5
specifically to get that cooking for us.
And now what I wanna do is generate
the test class so I'm gonna come up
here and option enter on that and say
Create Test. I want to do these two
and we'll add in a setUp method. I
don't need a teardown. IntelliJ is
giving us the name of OwnerControllerTest, which is just fine. Again I like to
go split-screen on this. I'm gonna split this and it will close the top
one so now I have my class under test at
top and a test down on the bottom here.
Now we wanna set up Mockito on this.
We will do the JUnit @ExtendWith
MockitoExtension.
So that initializes that. Now our OwnerController is gonna need the
OwnerService. So we're gonna set him up.
We'll call him a Mock.
Then of course we're gonna need an OwnerController.
Let's call him controller. We'll run InjectMocks
on him. There's a command in Mockito to init
mocks that you run in the setUp
method and t he @ExtendWith effectively
does the same thing for us. So let's see
here. We are going to allow a list of
owners. For the owners, let's make
sure that's a Set of owners.
Actually, I am going to not do that
there. I'm gonna do that inside the or
the setUp(). I'm sorry.
Let's do owners.add()
I'm just doing this here to add in a
couple owners to the Set that I want to
do that. I'm setting it up this way in
case I have more than one test. We're
probably not gonna do that here. But,
this does give me an object that gets it
reinitialize that I can use for
additional tests if I wanna test out
different scenarios. Now what I need to
do is initialize the Spring MVC
and this sets up to the
controller for testing. The Mock MVC
is a really nice Spring project.
Controllers can be really tricky, a little
beasts to test. So this really sets
things up nicely for us for testing so
I'm gonna set up mockMvc.
There's a couple different options
here. I like the standalone setup because
this is a very lightweight of doing it
so I'm gonna do standaloneSetup.
We are gonna say our controller dot
build(). There are different options
here. There's a lot of things that you
can do with the standaloneSetup. As
far as configuration, a number of
different options. I'm not getting into
right now. We have a very very simple
scenario that we wanna be testing.
But what this does is for each test
method, it initializes a mock environment
for your controller so you can test a
lot of different interactions with it. So
now, it's to listOwners. You can see
here this is gonna return back Model.
It's expecting a Model to come in.
We are going to add an attribute called
owners and the ownerService.findAll() is
gonna be invoked. So first thing, we
wanna do is say
when ownerService.findAll(). You can see
there it's say IntelliJ got that little
bubble up there asking me if I wanna
do a new import of the Mockito.when. I'm
gonna hit option enter, to say yes I do.
Then return. So that sets up
Mock Interaction.
Now you can say
mockMvc.perform(get)
and we are bringing up the world here.
I did not know there'd be so many
static imports
of gets here. I probably scrolled right
by it.
You can see there that is complaining about
complaining about an exception so I
added that to the method signature.
Now I can say andExpect(status()).
These static imports can be a little
tricky. I want the
MockMvcResultMatchers. It's exactly what
I want.
So I set up a very very basic test so
let's go ahead and run that.
You can see that that was not found.
Oh okay. So I made a mistake there so I'm
gonna do owners
like so. I bet this work better. I
made a mistake there. I was just looking
at the RequestMapping but it
actually builds off of that. So now, this
is actually working a little bit more
better so to speak because I did get the
200 status rather than 400. Now there's a
couple things that we can refactor here.
Rather than status is, we can do. Now you
can see that IntelliJ brought up a
number of options. I can say it's any
200 or I can do isOk. So I'm gonna
go to those ok. That kind of makes a
little more sense to me. So that's a
matcher there. I'm saying status isOk. That's testing back. Again, this
is on the HTTP status. And now, there's a
few more assertions that I can make on
this so let's add those andExpect
so I'm gonna say view(), this is another
static import.
It's gonna return back a
view name. I wanna make sure this is
returning back owners/index.
We can add in one more here
andExpect() model.
So model right, attribute and I should have owners on
there.
So we got a couple methods here.
I'm pretty sure we'll take in this matchers has size
so let's make sure that's it. Just to
reiterate, what we're doing here is we're
setting up a test. We wanna make sure
that this list owners is gonna get a
Model because remember our mock is
returning back a Set that has two
elements on it. So I'm gonna make sure
that I have an attribute called owners
which has a size of two and that the
view name of owners/index returns. Let's
go ahead and run that to make sure that he
runs happily.
You can see that is now happy and just to to
show you it if I said four there, this
test would fail. Just to show you that it
is in fact looking at the list owners
and you can see that he went kaboom
because the collection size was two and
not four. So fix that. That
gives us test coverage on this. If I
wanted to, I could also, let's see you
here. I'll show you real quick. We can
just copy this
and say...
so I could test a different path. So I
say index and it should return the same.
So all the same conditions there but I
wanna test that other path so I'm
showing you how to test an alternate
path to make sure that my mapping is
correct. You can see that it does run
pretty quick and that is in fact correct.
And now there's one final one. Here is
our find method says not implemented. So
now, what I can come down here is add in
a very simple one, mockMvc.perform().
I get and this is gonna be
/owners
and we can say .andExpect().
We can say view()name().
I'm just gonna copy that.
You can see here that we got a little red squiggly
there, Unhandled exception. I'm gonna
hit alt+enter and add exception to the
method signature, and now we have our
test there. This gives us coverage
for everything. Let's go ahead and run
that to make sure that this other one
here is in fact working properly.
I do plan to implement this so this test
will have to change. Now one other thing
that we can do here is show you another
thing. We can do verifyZeroInteractions()
with the ownerService mock because this
findOwners() should not be interacting
with the OwnerService. If it did, right
now Mockito would not squawk but at this
point we don't want it to, so let's go to
make sure that that in fact did not
happen.
You can see
there that test runs. Now I'm gonna come up here just make sure that all
my test run.
You can see here that all the tests are
running, so our controller tests are
running. So now we have test coverage on
that. Just to cover quickly what we
did again. We are using JUnit 5
here. We are extending it out with
MockitoExtension which will initialize the
mocks for us. We only have one mock
here on the OwnerService. We are using
the Mockito @InjectMocks which will set
up the controller with the mocks
injected into it, and then in our setUp
method, we are initializing an owners
object which we'll use for the return
value from the controllers. And then on
line 46, we're using the MockMvcBuilders, a standaloneSetup, which is
very lightweight to set up a environment
for Spring Controller to run in. It's all
Mock environment. It doesn't actually
pull up a server which is really quite
nice. I tested Spring applications before
this and it was awful. So that this is
very lightweight. It allows you to test
the interactions with it and then we are
testing list owners so we are going to
the URL /owners. And then we are
RequestMapping also has index. I wrote a
second test there to listOwnersByIndex(),
so that's the URLs owners/index. It should invoke the same handler
method. In both cases, we are doing
form GET. We're using HTTP GET verb.
We are expecting a status of ok which is
an HTTP status of 200. And then we are
expecting the view name to be returned
back for owners/index which
is a Thymeleaf View. We are expecting the
model to have an attribute called owners
with the size of two. And then finally, our
findOwners() does not implement it but we
are expecting that to return back a
status of 200 and the view name of
notimplemented. So we actually have an HTML
page called notimplemented. And then
finally in line 78 there, we are making
sure that we have zero interactions with
the Mock ownerService. So that completes
that test.
That was number 52. I am gonna go ahead
and commit this to GitHub.
I'm gonna commit and push it and
close out the task.